wiki link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standup_paddleboarding

Standup paddleboarding (SUP), the act of propelling oneself on a floating platform with the help of a paddle or pole, traces back to thousands of years ago and across many continents, but its current form and popularity originated in Hawaii in the 1900s. 
The sport is one of the oldest sports in the world (although may not have been classified as such) dating to around 3000 years ago with fishermen on the Nile river delta and places such as China for transporting goods along the Yangxe river.

It is a very relaxing sport to do, in lakes, flat rivers and when the surf permits the ocean as well. A lot of professional paddle boarders can go for miles and miles without breaking too much of a sweat, a good example of this is Archie Kapela - Navigating between the isles of Hawaii and managing to continue on for many hours at a time.

In the last decade or so SUP has been split into many different disciplines with different bases around the USA. Four of which are the most notable: Rick Thomas (San Diego), Ron House (Dana Point/San Clemente), Laird Hamilton (Malibu) and Bob Pearson (Santa Cruz).

The best places in Europe to do this relaxing sport are:

1. Spain
Known for its prisitine beaches, and in the Mediterranean the calmer waters allow paddlers to spent hours on the waves.

2. Greece
The Aegean sea is one of the classical places in the world, alongside its ancient cultures the waters are home to many calmer surfs that can be riden for hours, some people have even done island hopping and spotted whales!

3. Italy
The Adriatic is again another calm sea, but you could coast along from the north to the south in a matter of days with nothing but your paddle and board.

4. Netherlands
The flat lands of the Netherlands allow for lots of rivers to escape to the sea, some of the canals are also great to ride on.

5. The Czech Republic
The lakes of the center of the country are great for spending a day on and paddling on the sunnier days around these lakes will be completely peaceful.